In this lecture, we're going to take a look at an adapter variation, we're going to take a look at
yet another implementation of the adapter pattern, but this one is completely different.
This one is unlike anything you've ever seen because it's called a generic value adapter.
And it's actually something very silly, as you'll see in a moment.
It's something that is completely unnecessary in languages like C++, but in C Sharp, unfortunately,
it is necessary.
And we're going to take a look at how to construct it.
And we're also going to kind of explore this approach a bit further and look at some of the other patterns
as well.
So this is going to be a rather feature packed demo, but essentially the idea is as follows.
Let's suppose that you want to implement vectors.
You want to represent the idea of a vector.
Now, a vector can be in two dimensional space, a three dimensional, four dimensional space, whatever.
It can also be made up of different types.
So the components of the vector like X, Y and Z, for example, they can be integers, they can be
floating point values or double values or decimal or something else.
And you want to have some sort of generic approach to implementing all of this, using generics, using
generic types.
At the end, what you want is you want to have types like vector to F and vector three.
So you want to have a class for a two component vector of floating point values, the three component
vector of integer values and so on and so forth.
So you want all of this and the question is how can you actually get it using generic programming?
Well, a very naive approach would be to just make a class called Vector where you have two generic
parameters.
You specify the type of the elements that you and the store, and then you specify the dimensions.
How many dimensions does this vector actually have?
So you would kind of specify it like this and then you would have some maybe array of data where those
components are actually stored and then you would have the constructor.
So in the constructor you have to initialize the data.
You would say data equals nuzzi array.
And here is the problem.
Here is where it's entirely uncertain what you have to put inside the square brackets.
So you obviously want the array to match the number of dimensions, like put it D here, but that's
not going to work because in C sharp you cannot put literals inside generic types.
You can only have actual types in there.
So we cannot write something like Ãvar.
So actually it's not so much a var you cannot make a class called let's say vector to F which inherits
from vector float Colma two because you are not allowed to put the two in here.
And this leads to a design pattern called the generic value adapter.
Basically what you do is you adopt a literal, a literal value to a type, and it's actually very simple
to do.
What you do is you make an abstract class or an interface which just yields that particular value.
So I can say, for example, public interface, high integer, which just gives us a value so we only
have a getter and then we can implement this interface in classes and have those classes implement the
interface and actually yield that particular value.
So instead of doing the whole thing at compile time, you're doing that same thing at runtime.
So here I can build a class called Two, which implements the integer interface.
And here all I have to do is implement a value and just return the value to and we can sort of duplicate
this, for example.
So if you want the three components, something you would call the class three and here you would return
the number three, we can actually make it a bit nicer by wrapping or sort of creating a synthetic class
around these classes.
Or indeed, you could use a namespace here if you wanted to.
But I'll just make a class just to because basically these classes, they kind of exist at the top level
of the namespace that we have, and that's not always a good thing.
So I might make something like the following.
Public static class dimensions.
So the dimensions are two, three, and you can add other things here.
So we've basically taken a value like two or three and we've adapted the value using a class.
So it's a different kind of an adaptor.
But now this whole thing becomes roughly legal because here we can say the D is an integer, so we can
say the D is an integer and furthermore it has a default constructor.
That's another requirement in order to be able to actually initialize it.
So here, instead of using D, you would make a new instance of the and then you would get its value
because well remember, it's an integer, so it has a value and this is now legal.
So this whole construct is now legal.
You can now start actually manufacturing time.
So for example, if you wanted let's say you wanted the two components integer, you would make a class
called Vector to Y and you would inherit from a vector where the first argument is the type.
So in this case and obviously and the second argument is the.
Number of dimensions, so you say dimensions dot to there we go, so.
So this is something that's completely valid and there is no problem in actually getting it to work.
We can actually start using it so we can say things like VAVA equals new vector to AI and, you know,
you can you can customize the data here.
But in order to customize the data, of course, you have to give the vector additional features, like,
for example, you might want to give it an index so so people can actually address the different elements.
So coming back to the vector here, what you can do is you can say public see this index and here you
for the GETER, you say you get the data, add this particular index.
And for the center, while it's obvious stuff, you say data at index equals value.
So this is how you set the whole thing up and this would allow you to actually manipulate the different
components.
So you can say that the first component of the is equal to zero, or if you want the whole X, Y and
Z business like like we have in geometry, you can have that as well, except this is where you really
lose flexibility because we're not doing cogeneration, we're doing generic programming.
So here, for example, for the vector of what you can do is you can say, well, let's have a public
problem of type T called X, and that's going to be the first element.
So for the Geter, we return data apposition zero and for the center we have data position zero equals
value.
However, this quickly becomes kind of weird because if you add also the Y and Z, those Y and Z are
going to be there even if you have a two dimensional vector.
So you have a Z, but with a two dimensional vector, it doesn't really make any sense and it's actually
dangerous to use it.
So as you can see, you're kind of losing some of the functionality here already in terms of, you know,
losing some of the flexibility.
But on the other hand, you're gaining quite a lot as well.
So what you want to do with this kind of construct, well, you might want to, for example, add two
vectors together.
Seems like a sensible thing.
You have one vector.
You have, let's say another vector factor to Y, which also has a bunch of ideas.
And by the way, let's suppose you want to construct here once again, if you want to construct, this
is something that can be set up in the base class so you can have it in the vector, but then you'll
have to propagate the constructors.
And let's actually take a look at how this is done.
So suppose you want to take a bunch of values and you want to initialize the vector out of those values.
The question is how many arguments should you take?
Because you cannot, right?
You cannot.
Right.
Some sort of vector where you take T, X, T, Y, Z and so on because you don't know how many arguments
there are.
So the only situation, the only construct that solves this problem is parameter.
Parameter is what solve this problem.
So here you specify the number of values that you want to assign to a particular vector when you initialize
it.
And then, of course, you have to do the actual work.
You have to figure out that's what data you've got and how to assign it.
So it looks something like this.
You can see there's plenty of code here.
So there is a required size, which is the size of the array you're going to store, obviously relating
to the dimensions of the data structure, but also the provided size can be different.
So, for example, you have a three dimensional vector, but you've only provided two elements because
you find it convenient to just initialize the X and the Y leaving the Z alone.
So here we take the minimum, we take the minimum of the required size and then provide that size and
basically assign only those values.
That makes it kind of the safest approach out there.
And what you can now do is you can you can sort of add the constructor arguments here, except it's
not going to work just yet.
So in order to get this to work, you have to jump into a vector to Y and you have to you have to basically
create the appropriate constructor is now cogeneration is very easy nowadays using various developer
tools, but this is one of the two approaches.
So there is an alternative approach which takes us into the realm of factory methods and recursive generics.
Now this is a more advanced approach, so it's going to look particularly complicated.
But I do want to talk about it.
But before we talk about that, we need to talk about something else, which is also very important,
and that is how to perform actual operations on these vectors.
Because what I want to be able to do is I want to be able to say var result equals V plus V V.
And unfortunately, at the moment this is completely impossible because these things don't have an operator
plus.
Furthermore, what you cannot do is you cannot go back into the vector class that we've made here and
you cannot give it an operator.
Plus because remember, an operator plus cannot operate on generic types.
This could be a string or strings.
Also have operator plus this could be something that doesn't support the operator.
Plus like I do know a good for example.
So in this.
The case, what you have to do is you have to expand the inheritance hierarchy and kind of do what you
would call partial specialization in C++, you would specialize the vector class to integers and then
you would inherit from that.
So let's actually do that.
Let me just show you how this is done, because it's an interesting study.
So you'd make an in-between class in this inheritance hierarchy.
Let's go with vector of int.
So you take the dimensions, but you don't take the type argument because it's an integer vector.
So this vector event obviously inherits from vector where you specify and as well as the number of dimensions
you have to have the same generic constraints as well.
So you say this has to be an integer and has to have a default constructor.
And in here you would maybe replicate all of those constructors that we have from the base class because
you have to propagate them throughout the entire hierarchy.
So I've generate both the empty constructor as well as a parameter constructor.
But what we're interested in is getting that operator plus to work because we want to get this expression
to be legal and we can we can have our cake and eat it too in this particular location.
So here we want to add the two vectors.
So public static vector of int with certain dimensions.
Operator Plus.
OK, so we take the left hand side and the right hand side, left and side, right hand side and then
we basically perform the operation.
So we make the result basically a new vector event D we get the dimensions.
So once again for equals knew the value.
That's our generic value adapter work here.
And then we just make a for loop where we perform the copying.
So we basically say result at EI equals left hand side at EI plus right hand side at I like so and then
we can return the result and similarly we could cut and paste this entire method in order to support
operator times.
For example, if you wanted to do elementalist multiplication or division or subtraction or whatever,
but basically what this, this chunk of code, this operator plus implementation now would make this
thing legal.
But we have to modify the inheritance hierarchy because remember, vector to Y at the moment is still
just an ordinary vector of int and dimensions do it now has to be a factor of ins and specifying the
dimensions like so.
And now everything is legal.
All of a sudden the operator plus is a valid operator.
Everything, everything is working.
Basically there is absolutely no problem.
So as you may have noticed, we've had to perform lots of cogeneration for generating the constructors
because I really like the parameters constructor.
I really like being able to call the base parameter constructor.
But you have to kind of jump from here to here and then all the way up to here.
And it's a lot of work just taking each of these derived classes and just just giving every single one
of these two constructors.
Maybe, maybe we can avoid this, because if we didn't have to generate this constructor, then the
default constructor would be generated automatically, even if you didn't have it.
So the question is, how can we actually avoid this entire approach now?
I'll leave the default constructor is here, but let's make another vector public class vector.
Let's show we have a two dimensional one again.
Well, let's have a three dimensional vector 3F.
So vector three is going to be a vector of float.
So once again, as soon as you introduce a new taib, you have to basically have a new class such as
like here we have a vector of you would similarly have a vector offloads.
So without the operator plus it's actually very easy to construct.
You would just copy it like so you would change of int to of float here and then you would put float
here.
And obviously that's well that's pretty much it because you don't have to do anything else.
So this vector flow just uses floating point numbers.
You specify the dimensions as three like so and that's pretty much it.
Now let's suppose that we want to avoid the generation of the constructors and constructor propagation.
Maybe we want our base class to just provide a factory method because methods can be inherited and vector
3F would inherit this new factory methods of the base vector class.
So how can we do this?
Is it even possible to make a factory method up above here?
So let's let's try this.
Let's go into Vector.
So here we are in Vector and we're going to try to we have a parameter constructor, but we want something
different.
We want a parameter factory method.
So we basically want some sort of public static vector of Tecoma create, which takes programs to values.
Now you'll see it all go completely wrong in just about a second.
But then the implementation will be something like the following.
You basically return new vector of TD where you specify the value.
So you call the constructor, which is right here, and you return the result of that constructor.
Now, unfortunately, this approach isn't going to work.
It simply isn't going to work.
Let me show you why it's not going to work.
Let's suppose that we actually decide to use this approach.
And from the outset, it would look like everything is OK.
Vahue equals vector three, after all, to create and provide some floating point values, three point
five to point to have one.
So this is legal.
Now, what is the problem if everything works like what is the problem?
The problem is that as soon as you customize vector 3F in any way, this entire thing just fails.
Because if you look at this var here and if you actually specify the type explicitly, this is not a
vector 3f, this is a vector of float and dimensions dot three.
Now why is this important.
It's important because let's suppose we decide to go into vector 3F and we decide to override, just
make a custom to string for example.
So you make a custom to string where you do something fancy, like you try to, you try to maybe I don't
know, string join the components using a comma.
So take the data string.
So now you customized this type.
Unfortunately, if you do Udoh to string, you're not going to be calling this method at all, because
like I said, the result of the variable is a vector of float and dimensions three, whereas this type
inherits from vector of flow dimensions three.
So it's not even a vector of float.
That's just an ordinary factor.
Another thing, by the way, is that you cannot write something like you plus you.
It's no longer valid because once again, a vector three Abdul-Karim does not give you a vector of float
and it's precisely the vector flow that has the operator plus.
So it looks like a terrible approach.
It looks like the factory method isn't going to work, but in actual fact, we can make it work.
And the thing that makes it work is recursive generics, not because of generics are it's a it's a really
kind of rare approach.
It's an approach that is used in some of the other design patterns that we discuss here.
And basically what this means is that when you inherit from vector afloat, which in turn inherits from
Vector, you have to propagate additional type information up to the base class about the return type
of your factory.
So here, instead of returning vector of TD, you have to return some special type, let's call itself.
So this is the kind of typical approach of factory methods which try to return the type of the derived
object, the most derived object.
But of course, this requires quite a bit of work.
So if we go into the vector class, we now need to add T cells as one of the generic arguments here.
We also have to have additional constraints.
So T cells here is going to have the recursive generic constraint.
So T cell for a member has to inherit from us, it has to inherit from the whole vector to these things.
So we just cut and paste it here.
It also has to have a default constructor as well.
So coming back here now, this entire approach basically changes this and we can no longer do it like
this because, well, it's not a vector.
It's easy that we are constructing.
And it would be better to simply replicate the kind of behavior that we have inside the parameter constructor,
but in on the temporary variable, essentially.
So how do we do this?
Well, we need to return a T cell, so we may as well start by creating it.
VAR result equals new T cell.
So far so good.
And then we can basically perform all of these operations so all of the operations on theorems.
But when you have data, you just prefix it with the result of data and the same goes for our the data
here and then you return the result.
So as you can see, it's kind of difficult to actually reuse that constructor that we have.
So it's maybe easier to just go with the factory method approach altogether and have everything kind
of self-contained.
But the key the key thing here is that we're returning T.
S returning T cell.
And because of this, we now have to change the entire hierarchy.
Like every single time that we have here.
We have to change every single type to propagate this idea of type information up above.
So when you.
For example, vector of float and what you have to do is you also have to modify basically this type
to also have additional type information.
Now, different ways of doing it.
Maybe you want to sort of specify it here, or maybe you want to specify it at this particular point.
So here you could say a vector of float, the being, the underlying type.
So if somebody calls it on vector float, then you get to vector offload.
But, you know, the point is that you inherit further from this and the same will go for vector event,
same recursive generic approach.
So you will specify it here.
But really you have to go down, then you have to specify it.
And in these types you have to have this vector to Y and so on and all the rest of it.
You have to have basically all of this stuff working.
So remember, we wanted to avoid it in Vector 3F, so that's perhaps where we would specify both that
and the propagator type as well.
So the modification will go something like this, you would go back to a vector float and you would
modify this to also have a T.
S.
So that's particularly unpleasant because now you basically have to kind of propagate yourself across
the entire thing, so to speak.
So.
So you take a vector of itself and then actually this has to be this entire thing passed in here.
So you can see it's kind of getting really complicated.
It's getting really convoluted.
I mean, I can sort of see what's going on here, but it's getting less and less readable.
But we are going to get some benefits from it.
Of course, now this part is invalid.
Now, this part has to also be modified because you basically have to propagate vector 3F here as well
before you propagate the dimensions.
But now what we have is we have this wonderful situation where if I take this VAR and I specify the
type explicitly, you'll see that we are still getting vector offloads stuff.
And that's just not particularly good, is it, because we want to create invocation to actually give
us a vector 3F And at the moment we're, we're almost there, we're almost there but we're not quite
there.
So let's try tracing through the time.
So we have a vector 3F, a vector 3F is it inherits from a vector offload and it specifies vector 3F
in here.
So Vector 3F is the T self that is specified here and then the vector here is a vector of float TSF.
But in reality what happens is you have to specify I think t self here, you have to specify to yourself
here and then you get additional constraints on top of that because we don't know if that t self is
actually valid.
So we add an additional constraint that yourself is new, but even that is not enough because T.
S must also be convertible to a vector of the use of a float of D which.
As it stands, it is, in fact, convertible.
Everything is valid, but you can sort of see the complexity rise as we do this.
So with all of these modifications, let's go back into our declaration of Vector 3F and take a look
at what the type is.
And finally, we have our final result.
So this is what we wanted in the first place.
We wanted the factory method to return the actual types of it.
Vector three, if I get a vector 3F, if I call this on something else and we have added support for
this yet, but if I call it on something else, then I get that something else has a result.
So recursive generics are particularly helpful in here, but they do introduce quite a bit of complexity
because now every single declaration like a Vector three declaration just becomes this really messy
inheritance thing.
I mean, this is quite hard to understand for somebody who just wants to expand this hagy like adding
new type.
It now becomes fairly complicated.
But this is a legitimate approach.
This is something that does work and doesn't allow you to have this this nice little setup.
So the purpose of this entire lecture was to, first of all, talk about the generic value of data,
which is a rather silly thing that we have to do in C Sharp in order to propagate integer values or,
you know, any kind of literal values as arguments of a generic type.
So that is one thing.
But then we also discussed a couple of other things, like how to expand the hierarchy so that you get
operations on numeric types, in which case you basically have partial specialization.
You have like if you want operator plus, for example, you have to partially specialize.
The thing you have to say that here will specify explicitly that this is an in thing and this loses
some of the generality, because now if you want a vector of float, you have to have the vector flow
class effect of double class, blah, blah, blah.
So you're not as generic as you want it to be.
And then, of course, the icing on the cake here is to take a look at how to make a factory method,
which uses recursive generics to propagate type information across the inheritance.
So that's my example of the generic value adapter.